Northeast Fisheries Science Center bottom trawl metadata

	Data emailed by Sean Lucey, Sean.Lucey@noaa.gov, Northeast Fisheries Science Center. Data through 2008 can also be downloaded from www.iobis.org.

Version 2014-03-23/
	Survdat.RData
		Northeast US bottom trawl survey data, in binary format (readable by R). Each line is a record for a species caught within a haul/tow on a cruise. These data have already had conversion factors applied and filtered for "good" tows (shg < 136). The script that creates this file is SeanLuceycode/Survdat_calibrate.r. However, the script can only be run from behind the NEFSC firewall.
	
		CRUISE6: six-digit cruise id (first four digits are the year)
		STATION: station number (within a cruise)
		STRATUM: statistical stratum 
		SVSPP: species id. matches to SVSPP in neusSVSPP.RData file
		CATCHSEX: sex of the catch
			0: unsexed
			1: male
			2: female
			3-6?
		SVVESSEL: vessel id
		YEAR: year
		SEASON: season (FALL or SPRING)
		LAT: latitude in decimal degrees
		LON: longitude in decimal degrees
		DEPTH: depth in meters
		SURFTEMP: surface temperature in degrees Celsius
		SURFSALIN: surface salinity 
		BOTTEMP: bottom temperature, deg C
		BOTSALIN: bottom salinity
	
	SVSPP.RData
		Northeast US bottom trawl species data
	
		SCINAME: scientific name
		SVSPP: species id
		ITISSPP: ??
		COMNAME: common name
		AUTHOR: author for the species

	station.RData
		data for each tow. duplicated in Survdat.RData?
		
	bigelow_fall_calibration.csv
	bigelow_spring_calibration.csv
		Calibration numbers for adjusting data for changes in methods through time. These are two, but not all, of the files used by SeanLuceycode/Survdat_calibrate.r to generate Survdat.RData. Unfortunately, the other files are behind the NEFSC firewall.

	neusStrata.csv
		Area for each statistical stratum in the Aleutian Island, Eastern Bering Sea, Gulf of Alaska, and Northeast US surveys. Not all files have all fields.
	
		NPFMCArea: region name
		SubareaDescription: subarea name
		StratumCode: code for the stratum (matches STRATUM in ai, ebs, and goa files)
		OldStratumCode: stratum code from older classification system (only neus)
		DepthIntervalm: range of depths for the stratum, in meters
		Areakm2: area of the stratum in km2
		Areanmi2: area in square nautical miles
		
	SeanLuceycode/Survdat_calibrate.r
		Pulls data from the NEFSC survey database, filters for "good" tows, and applies calibration factors for changes in methods through time. It then outputs Survdat.RData. It can only be run from behind the NEFSC firewall.
		
	SeanLuceycode/survey.r
		Example code to take Survdat.RData and trim it in various ways.

Version 2015-01-30/
	Updated Survdat.RData file with date of tow included. This was by way of a new data pull by Sean Lucey at NEFSC.
		Now as EST_TOWDATE column, which is in format YYYY-MM-DD HH-MM-SS
	The rest of the files in this version are from the previous data version.

Version 2015-08-05/
	Ryan Batt got the latest Survdata.RData file from Sean Lucey
	The SVSPP.RDdata file is from the previous version
	Malin did not include in the zipfile the other files that are useful for documenting this dataset. See the Git respository metadata/docs folder for those.
	